# A7-Data-Curation-and-Analysis

#Goal: 

The main goal of this assignment was to try and extrapolate any interesting data trends from the top ten movies of each year in the 1980's. In that respect, it think it was successful! This was a very intersting process and I was glad to have a bit more experience with managing data which was aquired without an API. The data was both more and less in need of cleaning than I had expected. However, I mainly focused on the process of transforming the data into a more readable form. The analysis of the data was less fruitful. However, the trends in genre type and ticket pricing were interesting for sure.

#API Documentation:

Despite my best wishes, this dataset was not prohibited to be scraped automatically. This was a great experience with manual data management, but it was very time consuming. On the bright side, there was less cleaning to do when I was finally done transcribing. Initially, I attempted to utilize BeautifulSoup for data aquisition, but the licensing page left me no choice. ALL data was collected manually from the database pages for each respective year in the database

#Data License:

I, ETHAN HOWARD,DO NOT CLAIM OWNERSHIP OF THE DATA PROVIDED. ALL CREDITS GO TO THE ORIGINAL PROVIDOR, CREATOR, AND OWNER OF "THE NUMBERS" BOX OFFICE DATABASE.

The Numbers database can be found here, at https://www.the-numbers.com/

The Numbers yearly database can be found at https://www.the-numbers.com/market/

My handling of this data is for EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES only, dedicated to an assignment in the course I-310D at the University of Texas at Austin. This assignment was strictly for instructional purposes and is not meant to and MUST NOT involve any sort of commercial use. 

Additionally, all data collection methods comply with the allowances made by "The Numbers", with all data collection being done manually without the help of an API or scraper.

As stated here at https://www.the-numbers.com/data-services
  "Hand-Copying? We’re Cool With It.
   The fine print:
   We permit hand-copying data from The Numbers for personal and academic use
   In instances of automated scraping, users will be blocked and investigated
   Data for commercial use must be licensed either through our research services or OpusData"

Again, any and all data collected from "The Numbers Box Office" and its database service is not inteded for commercial use! This data is being released as part of a coursework assignment and will not benefit any person monetarily. The database has made it very clear that any and all use of this data cannot be used for commercail purposes and must not involve collection or modification via APIs. Any and all requests for information contained within this dataset must be directed rowards the owners of "The Numbers" and their commercial division, OpusData.

DATA TYPE LIST

Rank (Data Type = int) This column is the ranking of the movie (1-10) on the charts for the year that it was released.
Movie (Data Type = str) This column is the title of the move in string format.
Release Date (Data Type = str) This column contains the release date of the film in month, day, year formatting.
Distributor (Data Type = str) This column contains the name of the publisher for the listed movie.
Genre (Data Type = str) this column contains the genre of the movie as a string. This is consitent, and genre types do not repeat.
Year Gross (Data type = int) This column represents the amount of money generated by ticket sales in the release year
Tickets sold (Data Type = int) This column represents the number of tickets sold in the year of release.

Possible Issues:

The most glaring issue is that by constraining ticket sales to year of release, movie released around the holidays or the beginning of the next year may have their data cut off and thus not be included on the top charts.
A fix for this would be to measure a year from release, but that was not how the database structured their information.

Additionally, the release dates seem to be inconsitant.A movie may have originally released in 1983, for example, but a domestic release 2 years later would see it classified as 1985 release. This shouldn't have any real impact due to the small dataset size and manual implementation, but a larger grouping of data points could develop errors over time, especially if an API is used extensively.
